In a season filled with noise, with full calendars, full schedules, and full hands, we can still find ourselves feeling empty.
But Christmas was never meant to be crowded.
It was meant to be clear, simple, uncluttered.
When we make room, we discover the gift that was there all along.
Good morning.
Welcome to Encounter Church.
How many of you are excited to be here today?
Amen.
If you are a guest today, we are honored that you've chosen to worship with us.
We're honored that you're here.
As they were talking about a moment ago, please take a moment.
fill that connect card out, that welcome card, help us get to know you just a little bit better.
That helps us, helps you, helps the body of Christ to grow and become what God wants it to be.
All right, well, this morning, I'm excited about today for a couple of reasons.
Number one, because we are joined together by our entire encounter church family.
In fact, this morning, we're going to have not only our online folks with us, but we're gonna have our Lincoln family with us and our Warrensburg family.
with us, can we give them a hand this morning?
Amen.
I love these weeks when we all get to gather together for just a few moments and experience God's Word together and allow His Word to become alive and real in our personal lives.
I say it all the time.
We have to remind ourselves that every word in this book is applicable to our everyday lives.
Come on.
Sometimes we're guilty of trying to do things by ourselves in anybody in the house, anybody at one of our locations or online.
Are we ever guilty of trying to do things by ourselves?
Yeah.
And we say things like, well, you know, they just don't give you a guidebook for that when you leave the hospital and you have kids.
Or when you grab that marriage license, they don't give you a book to help you understand women.
Come on, somebody.
Yeah.
Well, you know what?
God's Word, if we will allow it to really penetrate our lives, it helps to open up the door and open up an avenue to allow God to lead us in a path and in a direction that not only honors Him,
but helps to further his kingdom as we reach beyond ourselves and impact lives around us.
So today we are in part two of a series that we are simply calling the uncluttered
Christmas.
I wanted to stay with this theme of make room.
This has been our theme for 2025.
I wanted to hang out in that just as long as we could.
So we've included that in this series.
It's the uncluttered Christmas, but this morning we're taking the time to look at the idea of what happens when we make room for God in the midst of the busyness of life.
Would you agree with me today that we live in a very hurry up
society.
Everything seems like it's on fire all of the time.
Everything is a urgency moment.
You get that phone call.
The people need you now.
You need a resolution for that.
Now your boss needs an answer for that.
Now you've got to take care of that situation now.
But I want to talk to you today about what would happen
If we would slow down just for a moment and allow the peace of God to rest in our lives.
If we're honest with ourselves, this season that's supposed to be filled with joy and peace and goodness and all of the excitement of the holidays, this season gets cluttered with so many things.
How many of you have had already more than two Christmas parties?
Just us.
Thanks.
There's a couple of this group over here.
I've been to at least two.
I've got another one this coming Tuesday night and more to come.
We pack our schedule full of so many things.
And then we wonder why peace is missing.
I want to take a few moments today.
to discover or maybe rediscover what it means to slow down in a hurry up world.
I believe that every Christian, every person that has a relationship with God has at their disposal a peace that is not able to be comprehended or even explained by this world, but a peace that only God can give.
And what we're going to discover tonight, I'm going to kind of peel back a little bit.
What we're going to discover this morning, rather, it's not that life has to really slow down to find the resolution, but we've got to allow God to walk with us in the moments of life so that His peace guides our steps, so that His peace guides our decisions.
so that his peace sets the pace for our life.
I believe that it's amazing how Christmas this season meant to bring peace oftentimes feels anything but peaceful.
It's like the story of the shepherds.
Do you remember in the Christmas story at the moment when the angels appeared to the shepherds?
Now, if you've heard this portion of the Christmas story before, I want to encourage you see it through new lenses today.
Allow God to really kind of open things up for your life.
If you've never heard this story, really tune in closely today.
I believe that God's going to speak into our lives in just a few moments from his word.
Here's the reality.
We rush from store to store.
We scroll through online sales, plan the parties, wrap the gifts in the cards, and somehow try to squeeze in a few moments to remember the reason for the season.
But truth be told, our Christmas is often chaos at best.
Our calendars may be absolutely jam-packed full, but many times our hearts are empty.
seemingly the faster and the faster that we go, the further and the further away from the peace of God we find ourselves.
So could it be that peace is not something you find when the dust settles and the busyness settles down?
Could it be that peace is found in the one that meets you where you are?
Come on, I want to say that again because that should have got this side excited this morning.
Could it be that peace is not when everything slows down?
Because we excuse our way through, right?
We say things like, well, it's just a season.
When anybody ever used that phrase in their life, it's just a busy season of life.
Eventually, you know, the season is going to be over.
But what I've come to understand is I go from one crazy season to the next crazy season to the next crazy season.
But yet every single season, I say it's just a season.
Could it be that peace isn't necessarily found when the dust settles from the crazy season?
Could it be that peace is found when we ask God, when we invite Him in to the chaos that we find ourselves in?
Could it be that when we open up that door and say, you are welcome here, I make room for you?
Could it be that it's there that we find peace?
Today I wanna look at this story in Luke chapter two.
This is a time and a busy moment for the shepherds.
They were watching their sheep, no doubt they were fending off all of the predators, the wolves, the bears, who knows what, they were chasing the sheep.
They were minding their own business and they find themselves with an encounter with not just an angel,
but a heavenly choir presenting a message.
Take a look at what it says.
That night, there were shepherds staying in the fields nearby, guarding their flocks of sheep.
Suddenly, come on, look at your neighbor, say suddenly.
Suddenly, the angel of the Lord appeared among them and the radiance of the Lord's glory surrounded them.
Now, first off, could you imagine they're on a hillside?
No doubt, they probably had a little campfire, but that was all of the light.
dark out there.
And suddenly the angel of the Lord appears, the glory of the Lord shone around them.
And the Bible says they were terrified.
But the angel reassured them, don't be afraid.
Look what he says, I bring you good news that will bring great joy to all people.
The Savior, yes, the Messiah, the Lord, has been born today in Bethlehem, the city of David.
And you will recognize him by this sign.
You will find the baby wrapped snugly in strips of cloth lying in a manger.
Suddenly the angel was joined by a vast host of others, the armies of heaven praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest.
And peace on earth to those whom God
is pleased.
I want to take a few moments this morning.
I want to dig into what it looks like when God shows up in a cluttered mess just to bring His peace.
There's three truths that I want to share with you this morning.
Number one is this, God brings peace to ordinary people in unexpected places.
Come on, that should encourage some of us this morning.
God brings peace to ordinary people.
How many of you would consider yourself an ordinary person?
Now some of you are like, I'm nothing but ordinary.
Others are like, I'm not even close to ordinary.
I don't know.
We had one snowman hat going on on the stage, anything but ordinary going on up here this morning patience.
It looked great.
God brings peace to ordinary people in unexpected places.
You see, when we think about peace, oftentimes we think of quiet moments.
When life settles down, maybe you've got the record player playing his plane being Crosby Christmas.
Maybe Gene Autry is on there.
You got some great Christmas music playing in the distance.
You've got candle lights.
The lights are kind of dim in the house.
There's a silent snowfall coming down very gently outside.
You've got a nice warm cup of coffee in your hand and there's a fire in the fireplace.
What an incredible moment that would be.
But here's what I understand.
God didn't show up in a chaos-free moments.
He didn't announce the peace of the king of kings and the Lord of lords to royalty in the palace.
He didn't bring it to the priest in the temple.
Think about this.
God didn't announce the birth of Jesus to powerful and polished people.
But he presented this good news of great joy, this peace for the world to a ragtag group of guys.
They were tired.
They were overworked, overrun, perhaps they were maybe trapped in the spiral of life.
They found themselves in an ordinary day doing the ordinary thing, and yet God showed up for them.
Did you know that Jesus didn't come for those that think they are righteous?
Come on.
He came for messed up people.
I remember the first song that I ever sang as a little guy in churches.
He's still working on me.
I feel like I could sing that song again today.
We are all a work in progress.
Come on, look at your neighbor today and say, you are a piece of work.
Yeah, every location.
Come on, participate in this moment.
You are a piece of work.
Aren't you glad that God cares for a piece of work?
Aren't you glad that God cares for ordinary people experiencing ordinary things in the midst of the chaos of life?
I love what Jesus says to the religious folk in his day.
Luke chapter five, he says, healthy people don't need a doctor.
Some of you guys just justified your reason for not going, honey, I told you I didn't need to go to the doctor.
Jesus said, healthy people don't need a doctor.
Healthy people don't need a doctor, sick people do.
I have come to call not those who think they are righteous, but those who know they are sinners and need
to repent.
The shepherds were reminded that peace doesn't wait for the picture perfect, calm, stress free moment, but peace will arrive in the middle of your normal, noisy, perhaps stressful, even loud and rowdy, messy, smelly moments in life.
God desires to show up right where you are today.
Oh, come on.
This should be good news for every one of us this morning.
God sees the craziness of your life.
And yet he stands at the door and he says, can I just come in?
Can I just hang out with you?
for a few moments.
Can we just have a moment together?
Healthy people don't need a doctor.
Sick people do.
Look at this.
The angel of the Lord did not send the message ahead of time to say you need to get ready.
He didn't send a telegram to the shepherds and say to them, well, slow down tonight.
Wait a few moments, schedule out some time because you are going to have the concert of your life.
You didn't say straighten up.
Get yourself all right because God's going to show up.
He wants to send his peace.
No, no, no.
Two things that I see.
Number one is this.
God doesn't wait for peace to give peace.
God doesn't wait for everything to get picture perfect.
to give his peace.
Here's what I love about the Christmas story.
Could you imagine being with the shepherds?
They're going through their regular day.
Like I said a moment ago, they're fighting wolves and bears or you name it.
They're keeping the sheep safe and then suddenly it happens.
The Bible says suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared among them.
The radiance of the Lord's glory surrounded them.
They were terrified.
Now hold on to that word.
We're going to come back in just a moment.
but the angel reassured them, do not be afraid.
Did you see what I saw in this verse?
It doesn't say they gradually appeared, but it says suddenly they showed up.
Here we are.
We have a message.
In fact, we've prepared a little song for you.
This might just be the first singing telegram.
I don't know.
God didn't wait for the calm moment in their lives.
He met them right where they were.
Grab ahold of this.
God meets us where we are, not where we think we need to be.
Some of us are kind of, if I can just
And if I could just align that, if I could just make this happen, then maybe the peace of God will meet me there.
But God says, I want to come in right where you are.
I want to meet you on the hillside as you're watching the sheep.
I want to send my heavenly armies to you.
He desires to meet you in the midst of your chaos.
So yes, God doesn't wait for peace to give peace.
But number two, God offers peace.
And when he does, fear has to leave.
See, some of us, we fail to receive the peace of God because we're consumed by the fear.
Hear the shepherds where they were on the hillside, the angel of the Lord's glory shone around them.
The angel begins to speak to them and the Bible says, they were terrified.
I can imagine, I probably would be much the same as the shepherds that night.
This word fear, it literally means to be seized with alarm.
But God out of his grace, God out of his mercy, he doesn't send the armies of heaven away, but yet he takes a moment and he begins to trade out the fear
for His peace.
The Bible tells us that the peace that Jesus offers is not like the peace of this world, but the peace that He desires to give us will replace the fear in our lives.
See, the world offers peace and that peace is dependent upon circumstances working out just right, but the peace of God
is found when we rest on Him and when we rest in His presence.
Did you know that when we change the environment, it changes where we are?
Come on, look at this.
Stay with me for a second.
When we hang out in the midst of the fear, when we hang out in the midst of the frustration or the discouragement or the doubt or the anxiety or whatever happens to be, we entertain that.
And eventually what happens?
We begin to embody that and take that on as our personality.
Well, you know, I'm just a fearful person.
Oh, I just worry all the time.
Come on, we've all said these things, right?
We identify.
with that, but what would happen?
If in that moment, rather than residing there, we said, Lord, I don't want to necessarily just hang here, but God, I want to go where you are.
The Bible says, in the presence of God, there is fullness of joy, not just a little bit of joy, but a fullness
saturated in joy.
Second Corinthians says, where the spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.
Some of you this morning, you need free from fear.
Some of you need free from chaos.
Some of you need free from addiction, anxiety, uncertainty.
The list goes on and on.
I want you to know, when you change the environment, when you change the place where you reside, when you move into the presence of God, there and only there will you find a joy and a peace and an assurance and a foundation that is not shaken when the winds begin to blow and the waters begin to rise and the struggles of life come your direction.
Thank God.
Come on.
There's fullness of joy.
Here's what I've discovered.
Peace is not found in a silent night.
Peace is found in a surrendered hearts.
Oh, we're so busy.
We're so busy trying to figure out how do I slow things down.
And I'm not saying that you shouldn't slow down.
We all have this issue
where we go, go, go, go, go.
But what if, rather than waiting for life to slow down, what if in this moment we said, Lord, would you come in?
Lord, I want to walk at your pace.
Lord, I want to allow you to lead my life.
God, I want to allow you to steer my steps.
peace isn't found in a silent night.
It's not found when everything calms down.
It's not found in that picture perfect moment when you're holding that cup of coffee by the crackling fire.
Peace is found when you change the environment and you step into the presence of God and you surrender your heart completely to him.
I wonder this morning, will you turn to him?
Will you allow his peace to invade and truly saturate your life in the midst of the chaos and clutter?
The second truth I find is this.
Peace is not the absence of stress, but the presence of Jesus.
Come on, we've been talking about this.
It's not the absence of stress, but it's the presence of Jesus.
The angel of the Lord said, peace on earth.
Now he wasn't announcing, hey, the moment Jesus gets here, this is gonna be a problem-free zone.
No struggles allowed.
Oh, wouldn't that be fantastic?
Man, wouldn't it be great if we can just say, man, this day, this week is gonna be picture perfect.
I'm not gonna face any problems.
I'm not gonna have any difficulties.
I'm not gonna face opposition.
Everything is gonna be smooth sailing.
Here's the problem with that.
As much as we would love that, we would never grow and mature
in our faith where we need to be if everything was always easy.
Right?
If life was always a slow pitch, there's no problem.
I got this.
I can handle this.
But even though I walk to the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.
Your rod and your staff, they come for me.
You leave me beside the still waters.
You make me lie down in green pastures.
This is what the Psalmist David was declaring.
He says, man, even though life is not always easy, and if you know anything about David's story, he had some great moments with God, but he also had some valley of the shadow of death moments.
swords flying at him, spears flying at him.
That's good times right there.
But he realized that he had to rest in the peace of God.
The angel, the Lord said peace on earth.
He wasn't again promising that problems would disappear.
He was proclaiming that God himself was drawing near that the presence of God was going to show up.
The reality is that in this world, we will still have issues and problems.
Jesus declared that in John 1633.
But we can't stop allowing the peace of God to come into our lives just because we'll have issues.
In John 14, 27, Jesus makes an incredible statement.
He says this, talking to his disciples, he says, peace, I leave with you.
My peace, I give you.
Not as the world gives do I give to you.
Let not your hearts be troubled.
Neither let them be afraid.
Now, notice what Jesus says here.
He doesn't say, I'm going to give you just some random peace to hold on to.
He doesn't say, I'm going to give you situational peace when everything comes down, when you have a good day, when the families are getting along, when everything is going just as it should, you will have peace.
But he says, I give you my peace.
Right through stuff around this.
This is the same piece that kept him calm in the boats when the disciples were freaking out because of a storm.
What was Jesus doing?
Taking a nap.
I saw a t-shirt a while back that says,
Jesus took naps.
Be like Jesus.
And I'm like, I need that.
That's glorious right there.
It's the same piece that kept him calm in the midst of the storm while on the boat.
It's the same piece that kept him steady under pressure.
It's the same piece that gave him confidence to follow the plan of God.
You see, having peace in the midst of the storm comes from God and God alone.
It's not something we can do on our own, but through His lens, we can see the storm brewing in the distance, but still be able to see the beauty of God in the midst of the storm.
Hmm.
That's a new perspective, isn't it?
We can see the storm.
The storm's coming.
But we could have enough faith in God to say, Lord, I trust you in the midst of the storm.
Lord, I don't know what you're going to do through this, God.
I don't know how you're going to bring about a resolution.
Lord, I can't wrap my brain around it right now, but Lord, I'm going to see your peace in the midst of the struggles of life.
This piece is available to every one of us in the midst of our clutter.
Paul further emphasizes this in Philippians chapter four.
He says, don't worry about anything.
Come on.
I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, but how many of you are warriors today?
I didn't say warriors.
Warriors.
W-O-R-R. Worry.
That's hard to say, isn't it?
Warriors.
How many of you are warriors?
Don't raise your hand.
Think about this just for a moment.
Man, if it can possibly go wrong, you are the pessimistic side.
I mean, you look at the glass and you're like, that thing is half empty.
In fact, it's almost dry.
And yet it's almost to the top.
Well, what if this doesn't work?
What if this doesn't pan out?
What if this falls apart?
What if we don't make it there?
What's going on?
Are you worried all the time?
Well, here Paul says, don't worry about anything.
How is that possible?
Well, keep reading.
Instead, pray about everything.
So rather than letting worry be your first response, what if giving it to God and stepping into His presence was the first response?
You see, our first intent as a person
The first thing that we're gonna do is we're gonna fall into the worry trap.
It's natural.
But can I just remind you that this isn't our residency?
We're heir to the throne of God.
We are his children.
And he cares about his children.
And so Paul says, don't worry about anything but pray about everything.
Tell God what you need and thank Him for all that He's done.
Oh, look at this.
Then.
So we had the formula.
The formula was don't worry.
Pray.
Tell God what you need and thank Him.
Then you will experience God's what?
Peace.
Which exceeds anything we can understand.
His peace will guard your hearts and minds as you live in Christ.
Jesus, this word guard literally means to protect.
His peace will protect your heart.
His peace will protect your mind.
Now, this isn't just a makeshift security team.
This is the armies of heaven.
Literally, the word protect here means to protect by a military guard to prevent hostile invasions.
I'm gonna just step out on a limb here and say, I think that sometimes worry is a hostile invasion.
I'm just gonna say that maybe it's an attack of the enemy trying to derail you from your trusting God.
But if we will pray about it, if we would just give it to God, the Bible says that his peace will send out the armies of heaven.
to protect you from the invasion.
There is spiritual warfare going on more often than we allow than we think is even there.
Yes?
Ephesians chapter six, we read it a few weeks ago, we wrestle not against flesh and blood.
In other words, you're not fighting against one another, but against principalities, evil forces of this world.
There's a heavenly battle, a spiritual battle,
And the armies of heaven are working overtime to guard your heart and your mind.
I wonder today, would you trade in all of that for the peace of God today?
Peace doesn't mean that everything is calm.
Peace means that you're calm when he's near.
It doesn't mean that the chaos stops, but it means that as you rest in his presence, as you allow him to guard and protect your heart and your mind, suddenly there's a peace that overwhelms your life.
Why?
Because you've changed the environment where you're hanging out.
Psalm 46, God is our refuge and strength always ready to help in times of trouble.
He stands ready to battle on your behalf.
I want to challenge you today.
Stop waiting for everything to become perfect.
Stop waiting for the chaos to stop, stop waiting for everything to settle down.
But today, choose to adjust the environments, to seek God and let His peace guard your heart and your mind.
The reality is this, peace is not when the storm stops.
Peace is when Jesus steps in.
Number three, when you trade the clutter for peace, you make space for rest and renewal.
Some of you today need rest and renewal.
Some of you are emotionally zapped.
You're relationally worn out.
You're overrun with life.
The clutter has distracted you from what God has for your life.
I'm just going to step out on the limb and say that when we trade in the clutter for his peace,
God in return is going to give you the rest and the renewal that you need.
Look what the angels saying to the shepherds.
They say, glory to God in the highest and peace.
Come on, we're going to talk about that word in just a moment.
And peace on earth to those whom God is pleased.
It's important that we grab ahold of this word, peace in the original language.
It's the word shalom.
Shalom in this context means wholeness or harmony or even restoration.
It's not just a calm feeling in your life, but it's a complete filling.
Not just a
Feeling like I feel good right now, but it's a complete feeling I'm Consumed with all of God when we surrender the clutter to God when we begin to make room for him We are truly making room for renewal refreshing and rest in our lives look what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 11 He says come to me
All of you who are weary and carrying heavy burdens, and I will give you rest.
Some of you just said, that's me.
I'm weary.
I'm worn out.
I've bent just about as much as I can bend.
I'm ready to snap.
Jesus says, would you come to me?
All that are weary and carrying heavy burdens,
and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you, let me teach you because I am humble and gentle and you will find rest for your souls.
For my yoke is easy to bear and my burden that I give you is light.
If you feel weary today, it may not be because your life is too full, it could very well be because your heart is too crowded.
You've let so many things consume the territory that God wants to step into.
You've turned the temple of God into an apartment complex, or for some of you, a subdivision.
And it's consumed with so much stuff.
And Jesus says, would you just make room for me?
Would you just give me space in your life?
Colossians chapter three verse 15 reminds us that we are to let peace, the peace of Jesus Christ rule our hearts.
Let the peace of Jesus Christ rule our hearts.
What are you allowing to rule your heart today?
What's navigating
the course of your life.
I think it's interesting that the author of Colossians here says the word let.
But as I begin to process, I realize that maybe it's because peace isn't something that you force, peace has to be something that you allow.
You have to let his peace rule.
You have to let his presence settle
your spirit.
You have to let his pace become yours.
I read it a couple of weeks ago, Isaiah tells us that they that wait upon the Lord.
In other words, those that trust or another translation says those that rest in the Lord will renew their strength.
Could it be that God's calling you today to make an adjustment to allow His pace, His speed, His direction?
Allow it to be what leads your life.
rather than allowing all the things around you to have control.
What if you would give God control today?
I wanna encourage you to make room for His peace in the midst of the clutter by inviting Jesus into your life today.
Because peace doesn't just come from slowing life down.
Peace comes from letting Jesus in.
Some of you need to hear this.
I'm giving you permission.
this Christmas season to slow down, to take a breath, to simply rest in the fact that God is near.
Come on, some of you need to hear that because you feel an obligation from everybody around you to go and do and make it happen.
You lie down in bed at night and you can't go to sleep for a while because there are hundreds of things running through your mind in your mental to-do list.
Can I just give you permission right now as your pastor?
I give you permission to slow down.
Here's an important word that every one of us needs to hear.
It's a simple word.
No.
Come on, can we say that across all three locations and even online?
Put it in the chat.
No.
Some of you are online or like, I'm not even putting the chat.
No, I'm not putting it in the chat.
No, we've got to learn that word.
No, it's okay to slow down.
It's not easy.
Because when we do and do and do and do, we feel important.
This can't go on without me.
I don't know why I sound like this southern person.
I don't even know.
Southern person with an attitude.
But it's the reality.
We think that if I don't do this, Christmas isn't going to happen.
Did you know that Christmas happened way before you were born?
And it's going to happen a long time after you die.
Christmas is not contingent upon you making a fruitcake.
By the way, nobody likes it anyway.
Just throwing that out there, point number four, truth number four, nobody likes a fruitcake.
Okay.
And not just the person, but the cake itself.
Man, I gotta get back on track here.
But when we allow
his peace to consume our lives.
When we take a moment just to be still, God can step into the midst of where we are.
He can change the environments of what life is experiencing.
And he can take us from this overrun, overlooked,
stressed out, discouraged, tired life into one that's experienced the fullness of his presence, his peace and his joy.
Would you choose today to make room for him?
Let's pray.
Lord, I pray right now that you'll speak across this room.
Lord, speak to every location this morning.
Lord, speak to that person that's sitting in the recliner or at their office seat or in their car or wherever they happen to be listening to this.
Lord, speak into our lives today, Lord, and help us to realize that your peace is available to every one of us.
All we need to do is open the door.
We thank you, God.
Lord, thank you that Heaven's army is ready to battle for us in Jesus' name.